doc/source/getting-tiles.rst, before:

Obtaining Images for Tiles
==========================

The best mosaics come from using a large pool of tile images with a wide
variety of colors. Typically, about 300 images is the minimum for good results.
And of course, it's more fun if the pool images are thematically related to the
target image: George Washington drawn from presidential protraits, Yoda drawn
from frames from Star Wars, etc.

The photomosaic package includes convenience functions for downloading image
collections from public websites. They do not "scrape" the websites; they use
the websites' official API. At this time, we only support Flickr, but more will
be added in the future. For full flexibility, you may want to just use the API
directly. These convenience functions just aim to make the basics easy:
downloading search results or downloading an album with a line or two of code.

If you plan to share or sell your mosiac, pay due attention to the copyright
license on the images you download. Where possible, we use the API to make
compliance easier.

Flickr
------

Apply for a Flickr API key
`here <https://www.flickr.com/services/api/keys/apply/>`_. You will get an API
key and a secret key. For this application we don't need the secret key.

.. code-block:: python

    import photomosaic as pm
    import photomosaic.flickr as pmf

    # Provide your API key.
    pm.set_options(flickr_api_key='YOUR_API_KEY_HERE')

    # Download the first 300 results from a search for 'cats cars'.
    pm.from_search('cats cars', 'some_directory', 300)

    # Download a specific album.
    pmf.from_url('https://www.flickr.com/photos/anapaunkovic/sets/72157646150658189',
                 'some_directory')

.. autofunction:: photomosaic.flickr.from_search

.. autofunction:: photomosaic.flickr.from_url

Commit message:

ENH: Save JSON with attribution info along with image.

doc/source/getting-tiles.rst, after:

Obtaining Images for Tiles
==========================

The best mosaics come from using a large pool of tile images with a wide
variety of colors. Typically, about 300 images is the minimum for good results.
And of course, it's more fun if the pool images are thematically related to the
target image: George Washington drawn from presidential protraits, Yoda drawn
from frames from Star Wars, etc.

The photomosaic package includes convenience functions for downloading image
collections from public websites. They use the websites' official public API to
"politely" scrape images and collect attribution information. For each image
file, a text file (JSON) with attribution information is also saved. It is
possible to filter queries based on their copyright license. If you plan to
share or sell your mosiac, pay due attention to the copyright license on the
images you download.

At this time, we only support Flickr, but more will be added in the future.

Flickr
------

Apply for a Flickr API key
`here <https://www.flickr.com/services/api/keys/apply/>`_. You will get an API
key and a secret key. For this application we don't need the secret key.

.. code-block:: python

    import photomosaic as pm
    import photomosaic.flickr as pmf

    # Provide your API key.
    pm.set_options(flickr_api_key='YOUR_API_KEY_HERE')

    # Download the first 300 results from a search for 'cats cars'.
    pm.from_search('cats cars', 'some_directory', 300)

    # Download a specific album.
    pmf.from_url('https://www.flickr.com/photos/anapaunkovic/sets/72157646150658189',
                 'some_directory')

.. autofunction:: photomosaic.flickr.from_search

.. autofunction:: photomosaic.flickr.from_url
