doc/source/palette.rst, before:

.. currentmodule:: photomosaic

Palette Adjustment
==================

The purpose of palette adjustment is to maximize the contrast and detail in the
final mosaic.

Original Image:

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/chelsea.png

Mosaic without Palette Adjustment:

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/no-palette-adjustment.png

Mosaic with Palette Adjustment:

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/basic.png

The mosaic of the unadjusted image is truer to the original colors, but the
adjusted image achieves higher detail.

To see how palette adjustment works, we'll look at "color palettes," histograms
f the values in each color channel.

This is the "color palette" of the original image.

.. code-block:: python

    converted_img = pm.perceptual(image)  # use the perceptually-uniform space
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(converted_img))

.. plot::

    from skimage import img_as_float
    from skimage.data import chelsea
    import photomosaic as pm
    image = img_as_float(chelsea())
    converted_img = pm.perceptual(image)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(converted_img))

Contrast this with the color palette of the candidate images in the pool,
below.  The palette of the pool is broader (particularly in the second and
third channels) because there is a greater variety of colors in the pool than
in the original image. In a mosaic, many of the pool images would not be used,
while others would need to be reused many times over. This results in lower
contrast.

.. code-block:: python

    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(list(pool.values())))

.. plot::

    POOL_PATH = '/tmp/photomosaic-docs-pool/pool.json'
    import photomosaic as pm
    pool = pm.import_pool(POOL_PATH)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(list(pool.values())))

The function :func:`adapt_to_pool` distorts the colors of the original
image so that it has a color palette similar to the pool. Notice that the
envelopes of the histograms below roughly match those above.

.. code-block:: python

    adjusted_img = pm.adapt_to_pool(converted_img, pool)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(adjusted_img))

.. plot::

    from skimage.data import chelsea
    from skimage import img_as_float
    import photomosaic as pm
    image = img_as_float(chelsea())
    converted_img = pm.perceptual(image)
    POOL_PATH = '/tmp/photomosaic-docs-pool/pool.json'
    pool = pm.import_pool(POOL_PATH)
    adjusted_img = pm.adapt_to_pool(converted_img, pool)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(adjusted_img))

The adjusted image looks like this.

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/adapted-chelsea.png

Of course, if we use a different pool --- say, one with sepia toned images ---
we'd get a different adjusted image tuned to the color palette of that pool.

Commit message:

DOC: Improve palette adjustment docs.

doc/source/palette.rst, after:

.. currentmodule:: photomosaic

Palette Adjustment
==================

The purpose of palette adjustment is to maximize the contrast and detail in the
final mosaic.

Original Image:

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/chelsea.png

Mosaic without Palette Adjustment:

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/no-palette-adjustment.png

Mosaic with Palette Adjustment:

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/basic.png

The mosaic of the unadjusted image is truer to the original colors, but the
adjusted image achieves higher detail. The boost in details is especially
important when the color palette of the tile pool lacks variety or does not
overlap well with the color palette of the original image.

To visualize color palette, we'll look at histograms of the values in each
color channel.

This is the palette of the original image.

.. code-block:: python

    converted_img = pm.perceptual(image)  # use the perceptually-uniform space
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(converted_img))

.. plot::

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from skimage import img_as_float
    from skimage.data import chelsea
    import photomosaic as pm
    image = img_as_float(chelsea())
    converted_img = pm.perceptual(image)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(converted_img))
    plt.suptitle('Color Palette of Original Target Image')

Contrast this with the color palette of the candidate images in the pool,
below.  The palette of the pool is broader (particularly in the second and
third channels) because there is a greater variety of colors in the pool than
in the original image. In a mosaic, many of the pool images would not be used,
while others would need to be reused many times over. This results in lower
contrast.

.. code-block:: python

    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(list(pool.values())))

.. plot::

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    import photomosaic as pm
    POOL_PATH = '/tmp/photomosaic-docs-pool/pool.json'
    pool = pm.import_pool(POOL_PATH)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(list(pool.values())))
    plt.suptitle('Color Palette of Tile Pool')

The function :func:`adapt_to_pool` distorts the colors of the original
image so that it has a color palette similar to the pool. Notice that the
envelopes of the histograms below match those above.

.. code-block:: python

    adjusted_img = pm.adapt_to_pool(converted_img, pool)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(adjusted_img))

.. plot::

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from skimage.data import chelsea
    from skimage import img_as_float
    import photomosaic as pm
    image = img_as_float(chelsea())
    converted_img = pm.perceptual(image)
    POOL_PATH = '/tmp/photomosaic-docs-pool/pool.json'
    pool = pm.import_pool(POOL_PATH)
    adjusted_img = pm.adapt_to_pool(converted_img, pool)
    pm.plot_palette(pm.color_palette(adjusted_img))
    plt.suptitle('Color Palette of Adjusted Target Image')

The adjusted image looks like this.

.. figure:: _static/generated_images/adapted-chelsea.png

Of course, if we use a different pool --- say, one with sepia toned images ---
we'd get a different adjusted image tuned to the color palette of that pool.
